greetings and salutations everybody Kirk
Nelson here with the pixelpro in this
video we'll be taking a look at a new
filter in Photoshop cs6 the oil paint
filter so let's start with this stock
image we have here this image just
looked right for an oil paint video I
know that's not paint on her face but it
kind of looks like she may have been oil
painting but anyway now anybody who's
used filters in Photoshop before know
that they leave a lot to be desired
they're not the most artistic or the
most impressive features of Photoshop
usually the results end up looking very
well filtered looked like something that
was done by a machine that just
mechanically applies a certain affect
over every pixel in every way it takes
no account for how the photo itself is
laid out as ours as far as the curves
and the details and the lines within the
photo as in a human artist would so
before we begin I'm gonna go ahead and
convert this to a smart object because
the oil paint filter does work with
smart objects and as a point of
comparison first I'd like to run some of
one of the old filters just so you can
see it
incidentally in cs6 now most of the
filters have been moved to the filter
gallery so if you're looking for like
the brushstroke filters or any of those
you're not gonna find them down here
anymore the whole artistic menu of
filters are not found well because
they're all hidden in this filter
gallery and so now we have the artistic
and brush strokes just as a point of
comparison let's go and let's take a
look at what some of these do it's this
anybody who's used Photoshop before is
gonna recognize these all look well they
look pretty filter II that's not what
we're gonna do let's cancel out of that
now I should also mention that the oil
paint filter works best on medium sized
images this image here this is 2,000
pixels by 1333 I find this to be a
pretty good size to get some good reason
alts for this if you're working for
print this is probably gonna be too
small if you're working for web this is
gonna be sighs pretty well so where do
we find it we find it in the filter menu
it's right here
oil paint it already is doing things a
little bit differently than the other
filters now this filter is based on the
old pixel bender plugin from previous
versions and it has some edge detection
in it the you can see Photoshop is
attempting to at least read the photo as
far as lines go in fact if you look up
here in the hair area you can see it's
actually trying to follow the contour
lines of the hair so there's some edge
detection built into the filter itself
which is a welcome addition to any
filter within Photoshop now it does it
look great well it looks better than a
lot of the other filters it looks pretty
decent but of course you can't just run
the filter and hit okay you have to play
with the with the options cuz if you
otherwise what well what fun is there in
that let's look at some of these the
stylization all right zoom in a little
more so you can see what that does you
bring it down low and it gets more of
the yeah sort of more of like an an old
filter look to it go really high and you
get some very blurry or very you know
strokey look to it the cleanliness one
cleans up those brush strokes or lets
them remain very almost short right the
scale this adjusts the the size of the
effect strokes it it's almost hard to
see zoom out some you can almost see it
floating in the back there that's kind
of the the size of the the light texture
that's in there bristle detail you don't
see much of a change of unless you have
the shine turned up so let's do that but
turn the shine up which makes it look
absolutely horrendous the bristle detail
you can see some changes there and also
the scale is a little more obvious if
that shine is turned way up
okay angular direction that's just the
light angle that comes through okay I'm
gonna turn this shine way back down
because that's let's just way too much
there I'm hit okay we'll take a look at
this now not too bad especially for a
filter now it can be improved take a
look at this file here where here's what
I've done is I've run the smart filter
I'm sorry I've run the filter on a smart
object here I then duplicated it and in
the secondary smart object and changed
the the settings a little bit so the
shine was increased but then I use the
mask to isolate the shine effect only to
the background area to give the
background less of a smooth look and
more of a harder dried acrylic look
another version set the soft light with
the opacity pulled down a little bit and
that's what gives us our finished
product here so that's the oil paint
filter in Photoshop cs6 I think it's
more useful than a lot of the previous
filters have been looks more like a hand
done painting than previously done
before
it still doesn't quite look exactly like
I painted this by hand it does have a
sill filter ish appearance to it but
overall it's not bad I think it's a
pretty good direction for Adobe to be
going in to everybody again this is Kirk
Nelson with the pixel pro thanks for
watching